# the-living-tree-of-life

A random iterated function system that implements nestedness, duality, and randomness to generate a multifractal tree of life.

# Usage

* The script "Main_Script.m" builds a multifractal tree. The script calls functions "BuildMultifractalTreeFn", "MakeRandomTree.m", and "CalculateFractalDims.m"

* The function "BuildMultifractalTreeFn" generates a multifractal tree, where the inputs are the maximum number of offspring and the maximum number of generations possible for every iteration of the Galton-Watson process, as well as the total number of system iterations. The main data structures returned are a scale matrix S, a progeny matrix P, an entropy matrix H, and a fractal dimensions matrix D_F

* The function "MakeRandomTree.m" uses the Galton-Watson branching process to generate a random tree at a given scale and with a maximum number of generations and progeny. This function is called repeatedly by the function "BuildMultifractalTreeFn.m".

* The script "Main_Script_Visualization.m" builds a multifractal tree that is mapped to the unit square so it can be visualized, and then zooms through it. The script calls functions "BuildMultifractalTreeForVisualFn.m", "MakeRandomTreeForVisual.m", "CalculateFractalDims.m", and "FractalZoom.m"

* The function "BuildMultifractalTreeForVisualFn.m" generates a multifractal tree mapped to the unit square, where the inputs are the maximum number of offspring and the maximum number of generations possible for every iteration of the Galton-Watson process, as well as the total number of system iterations. The main data structures returned are a scale matrix S, a progeny matrix P, an entropy matrix H, and fractal dimensions D_F.

* The function "MakeRandomTreeForVisual.m" uses the Galton-Watson branching process to generate a random tree at a given scale and with the maximum number of generations and progeny as parameters. This function returns information regarding the unit square coordinates of the root, internal nodes, and terminal nodes of the generated tree. This function is repeatedly called by the script "BuildMultifractalTreeForVisualFn.m".

* The script "FractalZoom.m" zooms through the multifractal tree generated by the function "BuildMultifractalTreeForVisualFn.m". One must select a leaf in the final iterate so that a particular path is chosen along which to zoom. There is the option to highlight this particular path in a different color. Image files at each zoom increment can also be saved for animation purposes.

* The script "CalculateFractalDims.m" calculates the fractal dimensions for the multifractal tree generated either from "BuildMultifractalTreeFn.m" or "BuildMultifractalTreeForVisualFn.m". The fractal dimensions is taken to be the correlation dimension.

* Plotting codes for the published figures are in file "PlotMultifractalTreeData.m"

* The "Data" folder contains the data used in the manuscript. 
